hey how's gone Dave 2d here in front of
me are two laptops from Chinese
companies and these are devices that
I've had for a while but I've never I've
never been comfortable making videos and
openly recommending them because of one
big issue it's the customer service I
give anything breaks or if anything goes
wrong with a device from like Kwame or
Xiaomi that process to get it repaired
or replaced or re anything is very
difficult I've experienced it firsthand
I've seen it happen to my friends and
it's just like when it comes to
recommending products to my audience I
want to make sure that if something goes
wrong it can for the most part be
resolved but the reason why I'm making
this video today is because both of
these devices are now available in North
America from North American outlets so
the huawei mate Pro X's device that you
can get from Amazon it goes for 1,200
bucks I think and the Xiaomi me at
notebook 13 these names are amazing but
the Shamy laptop 13-inch one is
available from Newegg for 900 I believe
but there's like a special offer or we
can get like a discount or something
like that but Newegg 900 for this one
Amazon 1200 for this one so both of
these have the MX 150 graphics card and
a 8th gen 4 core CPU the i-5 and they're
both very similar in performance but
there are some important differences
between them which would explain why the
Xiaomi is like $300 cheaper than the
Huawei so I'm going to talk about this
one first the $1200 mate book Pro X it
has the best build quality other - it's
really really well built it's clearly
modeled after Apple hardware but maybe
also some Asus Zenbook hardware great
finish very nice machining with no sharp
edges around the device it has a
fantastic display it's really bright
it's big it's got respectable color
gamut thin bezel it's really the main
attraction of the mate book the battery
life is also pretty good it's a 57 watt
hour battery and there's also nice
features like inside you get the
fingerprint sensor on the power button
it's actually a really nice location and
you also have a great keyboard layout
it's comfortable to type on very similar
in feel to the 2015 or earlier Mac books
it's a great keyboard now there are some
negatives the speaker's there I mean
they sound good up to a certain volume
like the mummy
like 5060 percent this whole thing
starts to vibrate and buzz which I don't
think it's like a unit like I don't
think it's my unit I've experienced this
on other devices well I don't know why
I've even built it like this like you
just capped that volume at 50 percent or
somehow fix the internals because that
vibration can get a little bit annoying
the pop-up webcam is really cool but it
shoots from a terrible angle it's
actually one of the worst I've seen I
also don't love the trackpad it uses
winders precision drivers but the
tracking isn't perfect and sometimes it
doesn't detect the gestures which is a
little bit annoying but overall the mate
Book Pro X is a really solid device for
the money okay moving on to this device
the xiaomi air 13 laptop or the me
notebook 13 depending on where purchase
it from the best feature about this
device is the price tag I know it's
weird to call price a feature but this
is one of the best values you can get
for the MX 158th gen CPU 13 inch laptop
it's just really well priced the build
quality is good it's not as well built
as a highway the finish isn't as well
done and there are some sharper edges on
the bottom panel but it's still good I
also like the fact that the top panel
has no branding a lot of devices out
there including the Huawei have a logo
and sometimes the company name this is
just a naked panel and I like that it's
simple and it looks clean the screen is
also nice it's not as bright or as big
as the Huawei device but it's still a
very respectable 13.3 inch screen the
touch pad is also good it's using
winners precision drivers again but for
whatever reason I'm getting better
tracking and better gesture detection on
this device than I am with this device a
few things I don't like about this thing
though start off right in the other
trackpad it's the fingerprint sensor
right at the top of that thing it just
gets in the way I don't feel like it's a
good position like sometimes you'll
touch it while you're using the trackpad
and the keyboard is okay like it's a
good layout but the keys are a little
bit softer on the stroke than I'd like
I think the typing experience is better
on the may book than it is on the Xiaomi
product other things I don't like the
speakers they're pretty weak and under
really heavy loads it can throttle not a
ton certainly not regularly most usage
you'd never notice it but if you're
running some CPU intensive stuff for
extended periods of time then yeah this
unit can throttle so that's basically it
both of these units are available in
North American retailers now I wouldn't
consider one or the other to be like the
obvious choice they're quite different
in price and obviously quite different
in product
like this is a very premium version this
is a less premium version but it's
significantly cheaper now one thing to
keep in mind if you're interested in
purchasing these devices understand that
if you purchase from a North American
outlet like Newegg or Amazon the pricing
is a little bit more expensive than it
was if you'd purchase this thing
directly from China you get the peace of
mind and all the customers support and
service that comes from purchasing here
but if you want the absolute best value
like the cheapest price possible I'd
still purchase it in Asia just be
prepared to not have any service should
anything go wrong ok hope you guys enjoy
this video thumbs we liked it
subs you loved it see you guys next time